---
title: AZ 304 | Cost Optimization
date: 2021-04-14T22:01:00.322Z
description: Cost Optimization
---
# AZ 304

## 1. Design for Cost Optimization

MS Learn :
[Plan and manage your Azure costs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/plan-manage-azure-costs/)

Generally, Serverless or PaaS solutions are cheaper than IaaS

Azure Advisor recommendations (Cost)

* Makes recommendations based on usage 

Azure Cost Management (not available on pay-as-you-go account)

* Historical look at how you've been spending money on Azure 


Optimize consumption strategy 

* Reserved Instances 
  - for static, predictable 24x7 workloads
  - 1 or 3 year commitment
  - save up to 72 % compared to pay-as-you-go

* Hybrid Benefit 
  - Port your existing Windows licenses
  - Save up to 80% when combined with Reserved Instances 

* Licensing Costs 
  - Always check if you are on the right license 
  - Do not pay double license or get caught unlicensed (fines)
  - Windows and SQL Server have BYOL offers
  - Dev licenses when available 

* Right Sizing 
  - Compute
  - Database
  - Identity 
  - Network
  - Storage 

  - Can you reduce size to reduce waste
  - Investigate new VM size options 

* Auto-Scaling 
  - Fitting compute supply to demand
  - EarlyMorning(low) - Morning (High) - Lunch (Moderate) - Afternoon (High) - Evening (low)

* SQL Database 
  - Utilize Elastic Pools instead of Single Instances when it makes sense

* Storage 
  - Utilize hot, cool, and archive storage tiers (General Purpose v2)

* Organization of resources 
  - Utilize resource groups to organize resources into cost centers 
  - Use multiple subscriptions 
  - Ensure all resources have an owner (tagging) by azure policy

* Entropy 
  - Regular environment clean-up (instead of once in few years)
  - Regular clean-up of old/dead projects, tests, proof of concepts
  - A company policy of what happens with untouched stuff

Question 1:
A company has set up an Azure subscription and an Azure tenant named softwarearchitect.onmicrosoft.com. They already have an on-premise data center and many applications running as part of their infrastructure. They have users who authenticate from various client types and versions. The company wants to ensure that all access from legacy clients such as Office 2010 is blocked from accessing any resources in their subscription.

They decide to make use of Azure Advisor

Would this fulfill the requirement?

[ ] Yes 
[x] No

Explanation : Azure Advisor is used as a recommendation’s engine. This service can be used to provide security and performance recommendations. It can’t be used to block authentication access.

Question 2:
A company currently an on-premise setup in place. They want to migrate a set of their on-premise SQL Servers to Azure. They want to make use of their existing SQL Server licenses that they have as part of their Software Assurance contract with Microsoft. This would help them make use of their existing investment.

They decide to use the Azure SQL database service along with the v-core licensing model.

Would this fulfill the requirement?

[x] Yes 
[ ] No

Explanation : Yes, this would work. In this model, you can make use of the Azure Hybrid Benefit. Here you can make use of your existing licenses.

Question 3:
A company wants to migrate the following resources to Azure.

- A set of Hyper-V servers running on a Hyper-V host

- A set of VMware servers managed via a vCenter Server

- A set of web applications

The company wants to design the solution in Azure based on the following key requirements

- The capacity requirements in Azure must be determined beforehand.

- Indicative costs for provisioning resources in Azure must be determined beforehand.

- Wherever possible PaaS services should be used

- The resources in Azure would be used across multiple departments within the company

The company wants to segregate the billing of Azure resources across the multiple departments in the company. Which of the following could be used to fulfill this requirement?

[ ] Azure policies 
[x] Resource tags
[ ] Azure Advisor 
[ ] Azure Locks

Explanation : Tags can be used as an effective way for billing purposes.

Question 4:
A company needs to archive 10 TB of on-premises data files to Azure. You need to recommend a data archival solution. The solution must reduce the cost of storing data files. Which of the following would you recommend for this requirement?










[ ] Premium Storage - General Purpose v2
[ ] Premium Storage - General Purpose v1
[x] Standard Storage - General Purpose v2
[ ] Standard Storage - General Purpose v1

Explanation : General Purpose V2 storage accounts support archival of data and premium storage only supports page and disk blobs.


## 2. Design a solution for logging and Monitoring 

Grouping Resources Using Tags

- 
